‎If you look at Matthew chapter 24
‎(you may want to open your Bibles there
‎because the text of the day comes from there),
‎we find in chapter 24,
‎starting in verse 29 through chapter 25,
‎Jesus is actually talking
‎about the conditions of the time of the end
‎that we’re, in fact, in right now
‎and, also, what we can expect
in the great tribulation.
‎So our scripture is at Matthew 24:42.
‎Let’s read it.
‎It says:
“Keep on the watch, therefore,
‎because you do not know
on what day your Lord is coming.”
‎So, what is referred to as “coming”?
‎Well, this is speaking about a future time.
‎Jesus will be coming as Judge.
‎When is he coming?
‎Well, what did he say there?
‎‘You do not know the day.’
‎But if you go to the next verse,
‎he sort of narrows his comment
and gives us a little bit of a clue.
‎He’s talking about a householder
being on watch for a thief.
‎Let’s read it in verse 43.
‎It says:
“But know one thing:
‎“If the householder had known
in what watch the thief was coming,
‎he would have kept awake
and not allowed his house to be broken into.”
‎So if you notice the footnote,
it says “at what time of night.”
‎So Jesus said, well,
the householder knew either day or night.
‎We’re going to narrow it down to the night
‎—that’s when you need to be on the watch.
‎And so it is that we are in the last days
—that’s what he’s speaking about.
‎Now, the “coming” would be
at some point in the last days.
‎It’s another reason
this illustration is good for us,
‎because he says
that the watch will be at night.
‎Now, what happens at nighttime?
‎Well, at nighttime
is usually when there’s adversity
‎if there’s going to be adversity.
‎There is gloom
‎—obscurity—
at nighttime.
‎That’s when the thieves come in
—those who want to do evil.
‎That’s when sometimes armies
will launch surprise attacks.
‎That’s where beasts will roam
—when they’ll roam.
‎And as a result,
notice what Jesus said in verse 44.
‎He says:
“On this account [because of that, he said],
‎“you too prove yourselves ready,
‎because the Son of man is coming
at an hour that you do not think to be it.”
‎So, what message was he giving us here?
‎Well, in verse 42:
“Keep on the watch.”
‎Verse 44, ahh,
‘Prove ourselves ready.’
‎Now let’s take the “keep on the watch,” first.
‎During the times we’re living in right now,
‎why is it that people are not on the watch?
‎They don’t understand
what’s happening around us.
‎Well, to understand,
‎we can go to Isaiah 56:10
‎because it gives some indication.
‎Isaiah 56:10
‎—speaking about the leaders of Judah—
‎and listen to what it says.
‎It says: “His watchmen are blind,
‎“none of them have taken note.
‎All of them are speechless dogs,
unable to bark.”
‎So the leaders were to be “watchmen”
‎but, instead,
he says they were “speechless.”
‎Now, dogs have
this very keen sense of hearing,
‎and so they hear before humans.
‎That’s why they can bark, giving a warning.
‎But these leaders weren’t doing it.
‎They weren’t warning
the people of the dangers,
‎and thus the spiritual condition
that they found themselves in.
‎So the leaders of Judah
‎actually are a fitting symbol
‎of Christendom’s religious clergy today
‎because they’re not warning the people.
‎And that’s why the masses don’t understand
‎the serious times we’re living in.
‎In fact, they are spiritually asleep.
‎Now let’s contrast
those speechless dogs, so to speak,
‎with Jehovah’s watchman,
“the faithful and discreet slave.”
‎Just think of what they’ve done for us:
‎They keep us alert
to the sign of Christ’s presence.
‎They help us to avoid
the snares of Satan the Devil.
‎They help us to understand
‎and stay focused
on the unfulfilled prophecies.
‎In fact, just think
of the amount of spiritual food
‎that they’re giving us.
‎Truly, they are in fact on the watch
‎and, as a result,
they’re helping us to stay on the watch.
‎But remember,
Jesus now narrowed it down to an individual.
‎We have to ‘prove ourselves ready,’ he said.
‎So to stay ready, we cannot have
‎this ‘speechless dog’ tendency in ourselves.
‎Now, what do we mean?
‎Well, think about this:
‎If our night watchman
is on his shift and he’s going around
‎and he sees water damage,
rather, a water leak
‎—what is he going to do about it?
‎Will he simply take note of it?
‎Well, if he only takes note of it,
‎the result is going to be major damage.
‎So inherent within being a watchman
‎is that you have to do something about it.
‎You can’t just see it and not act on it.
‎And so it is with each one of us.
‎When we look
at “the faithful and discreet slave,”
‎what a beautiful example they’re giving us.
‎They’re fulfilling their assignment
in a superior way.
‎But we must each ask ourselves,
‎‘Is my internal dog barking?’
‎Now, the words of Peter here
in 2 Peter chapter 3
‎are going to help us to answer
and to reason on that question.
‎It’s at 2 Peter 3:10.
‎It says:
“Jehovah’s day will come as a thief.”
‎OK, in verse 11,
it says that we need to figure out
‎‘what sort of persons’ we are in these areas
‎—‘in our holy acts of conduct
and our deeds of godly devotion.’
‎And then in verse 14, we’ll read it:
‎“Therefore, beloved ones,
since you are awaiting these things,
‎“do your utmost to be found finally by him
‎spotless and unblemished and in peace.”
‎So, obviously, spotless means
‎that when there was a spot,
we got rid of it,
‎or when there was a blemish,
we did something about it.
‎So to manifest these holy acts of conduct
‎that verse 11 is talking about,
‎we have to stay morally clean.
‎Now, we’re living in a world
that doesn’t want us to be morally clean.
‎They’re doing everything
to try to get us to think wrong
‎—to do things that Jehovah objects to.
‎When we have the first indication
‎that our thinking is not right,
‎maybe there’s an unclean thought or idea
‎that comes into our mind, what do we do?
‎Well, remember the watchman.
‎When he sees the leak,
he needs to do something about it.
‎Otherwise, there’ll be damage.
‎And so it is with us.
‎Even if we are thinking
—if we have a thought—
‎of deviating from Jehovah’s moral standards,
‎then the figurative dog better start barking
‎and we better do something about it.
‎If we don’t do so,
‎listen to the comments
of the March 2015 Watchtower.
‎It says:
“Are we finding the gap
‎“between our moral standards
and those of the world widening?
‎“If not, we have cause for concern.
‎“Could it be that our personal standards,
‎“though higher than those of the world,
are eroding?
‎“If so, we need to take positive action
‎to correct matters in order to please God.”
‎So if we detect a spiritual spot,
‎or blemish,
‎let’s go to Jehovah God in prayer
‎and ask him for help.
‎Let’s do research in a way that helps us
‎to identify the weakness
‎and also how to fix it.
‎And if needed, let’s reach out for help.
‎Have you ever lived next to a neighbor
‎that had a dog that barked all the time?
‎It barked for days,
for weeks, for months,
‎barking and barking.
‎Pretty soon
you became oblivious to the bark.
‎Well, may that never happen
‎when our internal dog is barking.
‎Yes, may we all be determined
to heed Jesus direction:
‎“Keep on the watch.”
‎‘Prove ourselves ready.’